---
title: Git
date: 2018-01-06 19:02:24
tags: Git
---

The best way to learn is trying it. [**HERE**](https://try.github.io) is a interactive website link.

Git is a distributed revision control and source code management system with an emphasis on speed. Git was initially designed and developed by Linus Torvalds for Linux kernel development.

### Installation
```
$ sudo apt-get install git-core
```

### Configure
```
$ git config --global user.name [name]
$ git config --global user.email [email]
```

### Create and Initialize Repository
```
$ mkdir git_folder
$ cd git_folder
$ git init
```
<!-- more -->

### Clone Repository
```
$ git clone example@git.com:project.git
```

### Making changes
```
$ git add .
```
This snapshot is now stored in a temporary staging area which Git calls the "index". You can permanently store the contents of the index in the repository with git commit:

```
$ git commit
```
This will prompt you for a commit message.
Or just use `-m` to set commit message directly.
```
$ git commit -m [message]
```
You’ve now stored the first version of your project in Git.

### Viewing project history
At any point you can view the history of your changes using
```
$ git log
```
### Managing branches
A single Git repository can maintain multiple branches of development.
To create a new branch named "experimental", use
```
$ git branch experimental
```
If you now run
```
$ git branch
```
you’ll get a list of all existing branches:
```
  experimental
* master
```
The "experimental" branch is the one you just created, and the "master" branch is a default branch that was created for you automatically. The asterisk marks the branch you are currently on; type
```
$ git checkout experimental
```
to switch to the experimental branch.

### Push and Pull
The Push operation stores data permanently to the Git repository.
```
$ git push origin master
```

The Pull operation will retrieve the data from repository.
```
$ git pull
```
<br>
Further update to be continued
